# Breif

Lava has now officially deployed the Symmetric Cross-chain Atomic Switch to enable decentralized and trustless Bitcoin, as well as Lava cross-chain transactions. Users can complete the exchange of Bitcoin to Lava through Switches without needing any intermediaries, further improving the security and accessibility of Lava transactions.

# Lava Interpretation | What exactly is being ‘Switched’ by Atomic Switches ?

Early in July 2012, Sergio Demian Lerner put forward the idea of ‘building a trustless trading protocol’ and named it P2PTradeX, which however didn’t draw much attention of the industry. Later in 2013, light began to appear. Based on the P2PTradeX, Tier Nolan first proposed the concept of Atomic Switch and detailed some basic principles of applying it in Cross-chain Cryptocurrency Atomic Switches. In 2014, developer JI777 conducted an atomic switch test between Dogecoin and Litecoin, which further confirmed the fundamental idea of the Atomic Switch as illustrated by Nolan.

Since then, with the ongoing development of the blockchain, there have been many high-quality public chain projects in the industry. Based on different technical features, benefit distribution, underlying logic, and application scenarios, they carry rather varied ecology and values, and hence cannot be connected to each other, something very much like ‘isolated value islands’. Against such a backdrop and from the desire of ‘Interconnectivity of Chains’, things began to change under the tireless work by many blockchain practitioners. In September 2017, Litecoin announced on Twitter that it had successfully executed the first atomic switch transaction. After that, Atomic Switch has really started to come to the view of the cryptocurrency community.

Atomic Switch means that atomic-level crypto assets can still be switched in blockchain systems even of different features, and the entire process is peer-to-peer and trustless. The operating principle of this can be simply illustrated as: Suppose A wants to exchange 1 BTC for 100 LVs of B. In order for the two parties to perform transactions, both the two need to transfer their BTC or LV to an address and hence generate two corresponding ‘Values’ (which can be understood as passwords or keys). Then the two can do transactions based on the two Values. When A obtains the LV that B stored in an address by a ‘Value’, the ‘Value’ that B can use for obtaining BTC will be displayed on the blockchain, so that B can obtain the corresponding BTC. In this way, both parties complete the transaction nearly at the same time.

The above is the entire process of decentralized transactions based on the Atomic Switch technology. All parties will strictly abide by the agreement in the instant peer-to-peer transaction, and if one party decides to exit, assets will be returned to the accounts of all parties within a prescribed time. It can be seen that the entire Atomic Switch process ensures that an event on one chain will trigger a corresponding event on another chain, which in some way guarantees the security of the transaction, thereby addressing the problem of trust deficiency and eliminating the happening of one event not triggering another. Therefore, we can also understand the Atomic Switch as an atomic-level switch game that either will be a success or simply a failure.

The biggest merit of Atomic Switch is that it achieves the real decentralization of transactions, preventing transaction risks even without the intervention of a third party. Besides, owing to the fact that the holders of cryptocurrencies always have complete control over their assets with the help of the Atomic Switch technology, some problems, such as hacking or malicious rollback often caused by centralized exchanges are effectively eliminated. Also, the Atomic Switch has streamlined some processes and made them not that time-consuming and complicated as they would otherwise be in current cryptocurrency exchanges, thus promoting the connectivity among blockchains, enabling the value circulation among chains, and providing a cornerstone for the overall development of the blockchain ecosystem.

Though there are a growing number of projects turning their eyes to the Atomic Switch technology, this path is by no means unimpeded, and there are still many problems waiting to be solved. For example, how do we resolve the issue of compatibility. To use this technology, cryptocurrencies need to meet the conditions of the Atomic Switch, which also poses a vital challenge to the cryptocurrencies since they are supposed to support the Atomic Switch technology in large quantity. In addition, in order to achieve real-time and efficient atomic switches, it is highly necessary to improve the rate of large data transactions, which is also a key area of the Atomic Switch technology.

To summarize, currently this technology needs more time to polish and develop itself. We believe that with the increasing maturity of the Atomic Switch technology, the information flow between blockchains will be greatly enhanced, thereby enabling the value circulation between tokens. Independent blockchain networks will be sure to step into a future of interconnectivity through the use of atomic switches. The blueprint for the Atomic Switch has been ready and is right waiting for project teams to join in.

For Lava who wants to build a global storage space consensus, a ‘Root of Trust’, and a ‘Top-level Indexing’ through the PoC mechanism, the Atomic Switch technology has a big role to play, which will also help pave the way for Lava’s vision. In the future described by Lava, Lava’s main chain can do embedding Layer 2 based on content-addressable distributed storage networks through cross-chain solutions without region and quantity limit. And Lava will provide a trustless environment through the space computing power of its main chain to achieve the top-level indexing, resource scheduling, and matching and recording of corresponding transaction behaviors of distributed storage network resources.

So far, Lava has officially deployed symmetric Cross-chain Atomic Switches to move closer to decentralized cross-chain transactions. Coupled with Lava of the Atomic Switch technology, the PoC mechanism adheres to the core values of building multi and cross-chain, highly available, and highly secure blockchain applications. At the same time, accumulated trust value is being fed back to storage space-based applications and services. We believe that through continued innovation and exploration by the project team, real decentralization of cryptocurrencies and high-value landing applications will come to the industry in the near future!
